---
layout: post
title: 'Ramzi S.'
post_author: Halla M.
category: 'Student Interview'
tags:
  - student-interview
---

**Name:** Ramzi S.  
**Nickname:** Chabita  
**Grade:** 12  
**Nationality:** Canadian  
**Years at MMI:** 7  
**Life motto:** “I don’t hate you ‘cause you’re fat. You’re fat ‘cause I hate you!”

1. *Celebrity crush?* Kerry Washington. Anyone who watches Scandal will understand.
2. *Most awkward thing that ever happened to you?* I’m more awkward than Jennifer Lawrence at the Oscars.
3. *If your life were a song, what would the title be?* “Love It”.
4. *Something you couldn’t live without?* My closet.
5. *Someone you couldn’t live without?* P.
6. *Best thing that happened in 2014?* Getting accepted into Tisch.
7. *If you could have one superpower what would it be?* The ability to eat chocolate with no weight gain.  
8. *Favorite subject?* Drama.
9. *The perfect vacation?* A vacation is perfect when you start forgetting what day it is.
10. *Cats or dogs?* Dogs.
11. *Favorite artist?* Beyoncé, I love R&B.
12. *Best thing that happened this month?* Performing West Side Story.
13. *Best thing that happened ever?* The runaway llamas
14. *Facebook or Instagram?* The gram. All the way.
15. *Favorite holiday?* New Years Eve.
16. *Biggest surprise you’ve ever had?* Finding out that Morocco was not in South America…geography is not my strong suit.
17. *If you could pick one historical figure to have coffee with, whom would you pick?* Does Liza Minnelli count as a historical figure?
18. *Best gift you ever received?* Good DNA (shout out to Naj!).
19. *Favorite country you visited?* Singapore.
20. *Number one goal in life?* To inspire a celeb’s break-up album.
21. *Movie you laughed the hardest through?* Bridesmaids killed me.  
22. *Best thing about living in Rome?* Ginger! (Not the spice, the restaurant/café).
23. *If you could switch places with someone for a day, who would it be?* Lena Dunham!
24. *Dream job?* To run my own show on HBO.
25. *Who should everyone be following right now?* @chrisellelim has the best Instagram!
