---
layout: post
title: 'Lotanna M.'
post_author: Halla M.
category: 'Student Interview'
tags:
  - student-interview
---

**Name:** Lotanna M.
**Nickname:** Lolo/Làlo/Lorenzo/Samuel
**Grade:** 11
**Nationality:** Nigerian
**Years at MMI:** 5
**Life motto:** If I don’t do it first, I want to do it better.

1. *Celebrity crush?* Scarlett Johansson.
2. *Most awkward thing that ever happened to you?* Seeing Germano in the shower.
3. *Pepsi or coke?* Coke.
4. *Something you couldn’t live without?* Soccer.
5. *Someone you couldn’t live without?* My mother.
6. *Number one goal in life?* To do things I can’t imagine now.
7. *If you could have one superpower, what would it be?* Immortality.
8. *Favorite subject?* Biology because Mr. Zinzi is my best friend.
9. *Best money you ever spent?* Buying a printer for school.
10. *3 things you’d take to a deserted island?* Phone, ball, food.
11. *Best thing that happened in 2014?* Become soccer champions for the 4th time in a row.
12. *Best thing that happened this month?* Beating Sigonella by 8 goals.
13. *Best thing that happened ever?* Having brothers around me all the time.
14. *Movie you laughed the hardest through?* The Dictator and Horrible Bosses.
15. *Favorite holiday?* Christmas.
16. *Biggest surprise you’ve ever had?* Trip to Budapest to see my big brother.
17. *If you could pick one historical figure to have coffee with, whom would you pick?* Francesco Totti because he’s Francesco Totti.
18. *Favorite country you visited?* Colombia.
19. *Country you want to visit?* Japan.
20. *Favorite artist?* Kanye West.
21. *Cats or dogs?* Dogs.
22. *Best thing about living in Rome?* AS Roma.
23. *Best gift you ever received?* PS3.
24. *Weirdest word in the English language?* Fella.
25. *If your life were a song, what would the title be?* All I Do is Win.
