---
layout: post
title: 'Narcissism on Wings'
post_author: Matteo Rosati
category: Editor's Column
tags:
  - editors-column
  - current-events-global
---

On the 24 March 2015, Andreas Lubitz decided to kill himself and 149 other people by crashing a plane into the French Alps. When faced with such inexplicable events, it is a human evolutionary imperative to look for a neat, rational motivation. But as it is with most suicides, the concept of understanding is nonsensical. We do not have the answers. I do not think we even have the right question. There is no psychopathology to be made of the copilot of the Germanwings flight number 4U9525 from Barcelona to Dusseldorf. One man with no desire to live decided that his own wish to die on his own terms and in the way he wanted was more important than the lives of all the other passengers. People that did not want to die. People that wanted to go forward. And also, people who had just been born and had just started to live.

Lacan claims that suicide is one of the few ways humans distinguish themselves from animals. A human is not forced to say ‘yes’ to life unconditionally, and can choose to commit suicide if he/she believes all possibilities are exhausted. Morally questionable or not, suicide is a deeply human act. However, what happened on March 24<sup>th</sup> was not a deeply human act. It cannot even be defined as bestial. Possibly the only word that could somehow attempt to describe this event would be ‘narcissistic’. However, Narcissus did not bring 150 people along with himself to the bottom of that fateful pool. He drowned hopelessly alone, with only the consolation of finally exhausting his Ego. The narcissistic man is burdened and yet elated by his Ego. Being the receptacle of the most essential element of the universe is hard but rewarding work. Here, however, a distinction must be made between the narcissistic man and the depressed man who develops narcissistic tendencies. The former will never commit suicide, because he will do anything in his power to avoid feeling useless or will lose his grasp on reality. His Ego supports him and nourishes him. The latter, however, develops a feeling of uselessness or of being nothing, and it is this feeling that becomes his Ego. His own identity becomes decentralized and obsesses on his being nothing. This, in turn, makes him become an ‘opposite’ narcissist. He finds twisted pleasure in being nothing and in attempting to destroy his own Ego. From here, suicide becomes a simple step. And because he has idolized his feeling of uselessness to the level of linchpin of the world, if he is nothing, then the world itself must be nothing.

This is what Lubitz did, albeit with a much greater human impact. He did not not consider the lives he was going to take. He considered them and took them because he believed that exhausting his Ego would exhaust the world. All the other people in the plane faded to faint shadows of the world that made him suffer when faced with the bright light of the supernova of his Ego, exploding in a terrible moment for the only and last time. The narcissist suicidal man kills himself to end his Ego, which he believes to be the linchpin of the world, and therefore by ending his life, he ends the world around him. This mentality explains people who murder their loved ones before committing suicide. It does not matter how many people I murdered before or with my suicide, because if I, the linchpin of the world, the epicenter of reality, am unimportant, then everything else must be useless and unimportant. His own obsession with his Ego as being useless and inconsequential led him to the terrible conclusion that everything else is useless and inconsequential.

The ‘opposite’ narcissist wants to destroy his Ego with the keenness of the severely depressed and with the desire for grandeur and immortality of the narcissist. His last act has to destroy his Ego in a personal way, but also make it immortal in an impersonal way. The people who die with him are nothing, just the means by which his act will be remembered. The people who die with him are nothing, just the extras to act as background. His hatred for life could not have left any survivors.
