---
layout: post
title: 'A First Glance at the Extended Essay'
post_author: Simone Faggiani
category: 'Current Events — Local'
tags:
  - current-events-local
---

Perhaps the most traumatic experience for every IB student is writing the extended essay, a compulsory piece of work, which contributes to 3 extra points on the final IB score. As a member of the Grade 11 class, I have recently had the opportunity to be introduced to the whole process of the extended essay and have found it to be challenging and confusing, but at the same time mildly enjoyable. In this article I will attempt to illustrate this in as a thorough a way as can possibly be done.

The extended essay, affectionately known by IB students around the world as EE, is the epitome of the IB diploma. The work itself reflects everything that defines the diploma: hard work, precision, time management, and about 20 individual deadlines that have to be met with maximum precision. In short, it is every student’s nightmare, but if done properly it can provide those extra points that are so vital to applying to certain courses in university. This is why I have found the whole process intriguing thus far, and even though I still do not have a clear idea, I am thankful for the thinking that the EE has generated, and the fact that it has allowed me to broaden my “horizons”.

I am wholly satisfied with the EE program offered at MMI, as are all of my fellow peers, but wish to draw to attention one gaping flaw in the whole program: the choice of advisors. Once you have in fact chosen the subject and teacher you would like to work with, it is basically a free for all to chose the person you desire to aid you in this ever so important piece of work. It just is not practical to have have students do an essay they do not want to complete just because they can’t get an advisor. How can this be changed? It is paramount that every student has an equal opportunity, and as a result there should be enough teachers to take students for ever subject of preference. This is quite hard to achieve, but can be reached through the adoption of a new selection program. Time should not be an issue, and people who hand in a proposal to an advisor before anyone else should not have preference over others. Instead, all proposition forms should be submitted within a deadline, and considered all at the same time, regardless of submission time. As it is perfectly understandable that teachers cannot take everyone, choices have to be made on the basis on HL and SL students, with higher level having preference, and the student showing the most interest and proposing the most interesting areas of study getting the edge. In conclusion, it would be amazing if every student had the opportunity to pursue their essay of interest.

To end this article, I would like to give a few tips on how to best face the extended essay, coming from my first month or so being involved in it. My first piece of advice to all of you students who will have to write the extended essay is to start thinking about it early, and to pay attention in the seminars to get the best possible start to the extended essay. Second and perhaps essential; thoroughly read through the Extended Essay Booklet. This is extremely helpful and will provide you with all of the information needed to tackle this extremely difficult piece of work. Finally, be prepared to be the first person to submit a request to your advisor, as it is quite literally a footrace to get to him/her first. It is a hard and confusing process, but it is never too late to change, and all becomes easier thanks to the staff at MMI.
